[Applause]
[Music]
ah divine purifications her purification
son's death in order to entry
and what do you what do you think death
is ah well as I say in the book
eventually you come to a point if you've
gone through many cycles of death and
rebirth you come to a point where the
death loses its meaning because you've
learned from experience that you can die
you can lose all your reality reference
points
everything you know yourself to be can
be shattered and destroyed but the
Phoenix always rises you always wake up
you a change you always awakens in a
deeper capacity in a deeper level of
reality so from this perspective
eventually you learned that there is no
such thing as death there is only the
shedding of one particular set of
parameters within which awareness
operates shedding those parameters and
letting consciousness expand to a deeper
experience of reality what we usually
mean and I think death of the physical
body is something very similar what you
go through in an LSD session deep one
that type of death approximates what
happens when you go through physical
death the body dies you lose your
physical reference points consciousness
expands into a deeper and broader
universe but eventually the very concept
of death loses its meaning in this
respect yeah it's two ways it's gonna go
some I've come back I come back to the
way I was going to go on that and the
grilling impact of that like I spoke to
somebody and in a way it's existential
it can be existentially violent a
psychedelic experience yes
and there's moments I mean I think
that's a good secluded description
existence Muir Island what's he like and
then I don't think also that you're ever
getting comfortable it's not like you
suddenly go okay I've done 50 and this
is going to be no problem because
there's bigger levels is that fair to
say
and I thought that you would go through
a period of you know death rebirth and
purging and whatnot and you would get to
a stable place and all all entries from
that point on would be clearer and
easier I found that that's not true at
the end of the universe is infinitely
deep with an infinite number of levels
and as long as you keep pushing the
outer edges of yours experience if
you're willing to go farther at the
universe will keep taking you in deeper
and it always will require some deep
surrender some death and rebirth process
to move deeper into it when you say
universe what what's you what's that to
you
what is that ice what's that word mean
to you yeah well my experience is of
course when you let go of consciousness
at the physical level you enter into a
deeper dimension of consciousness and
then later is still a deeper dimension
and still a deeper dimension and it's
all coherent from top to bottom and it
is all fundamentally unified for me it
never took a face it never showed an
identity as such it was always
open-ended and perpetually fluid and
invisible and yet very deeply felt so
what do we call this thing what do we
call this consciousness which we
dissolve into its successive levels some
might call it the infinite the absolute
I call it both of those things I call it
the creative intelligence of the
universe it feels to be the creative
intelligence that's inside the universe
and behind the universe different
aspects coming forward
different times in the end in my heart
of hearts I call it my beloved because
you do once you enter into it once you
dissolve into it once you recover your
true identity within its identity then
it opens up dimensions of love within
you and it pours dimensions of love
within you that it becomes my beloved
sometimes I call it the great expanse
something to suggest the vastness its
vastness its power its creativity its
intelligence and of course since
compassion is a mark of oneness its
inherent oneness so that's what
compassion is a spontaneous
manifestation of its innate oneness hmm
yes for me I think he calls it an Indian
guru who used the word the beloved and
that was the guy in England he would
refer to oneness so he referred to the
beloved xx Parsons talked about
unconditional love that that it's but
not the love that we would know it's
it's love beyond conditions beyond it's
not a personnal it's the allowance of
all things yeah it's it's a deeper love
than human love but I think it is alive
and the best of us when we experience
love but it is it is it's a radical love
it so it's for love that the doll has
for the 10,000 things you know it's it
is the love that being has for its own
self for its own being because in the
end from its perspective all of us and
all of creation is a manifestation of
its being so how could it not love
itself and therefore how could it not
love us
hmm so let's say can we go this route
let's see where it goes
say the idea of my beloved and it's
and who do you think is describing when
you say it's Maya but who who is
describing the beloved's you know this
sort of perspective because there is a
perspective that it cannot see itself
only in reflections and it because it is
already what's happening the Muhammad is
already what's happening there yeah it
can't it can only ever appear as yeah
and if you know where I'm going with
that idea yeah yeah I do it's my heart
to objectify in a way when objectifying
is almost what is a part of the pelvis
is that happening already it's fresh
already yeah it's it's already complete
in other words what you're saying there
once we're kind of talking about
experience that you've had and you've
written a book it's it gives the
impression of being once removed but
obviously it's a part already yeah you
know we have all sorts of ideas and
stories we tell ourselves about what
this totality consciousness is and isn't
and what it can know and can't know and
I think a lot of that is just cultural
scripting it's it's our best guess it's
our best cultural guests and our best
cultural guests is not very old
at this juncture we've been kind of
making these metaphysical guesses earth
intuitions for 5,000 years
but this intelligence is 13.7 plus
billion years in the making and
unfolding and we're just kind of getting
to the stop place in our evolution where
we can really begin to engage it so I
my sense is I don't know whether this
intelligence is not self-aware except
through us that seems kind of
outrageously puts enormous privilege of
place on us as to be the mirror of the
divine why should we assume that this
intelligence is not self-aware as it
unfolds itself with seeming pointed
accuracy through time and space so what
I can say
is this when I lose my boundaries as
Chris Bosh well allow myself to dissolve
as Chris Bosh and enter into these
deeper layers there's many many layers
of this phenomenon so some of the early
layers have to do with my species
consciousness the mind of the collective
unconscious the mind of my species other
layers have to do with the mind of our
planet Gaia consciousness and there are
multiple layers going right through
species mind the archetypal mind
archetypal dimensions of the root causes
of some of the patterns inside time and
space the root cause even of time and
space itself moving even deeper into
dimensions of oneness permutations of
oneness even entering into the primal
void that appears to be the the
formlessness out of which all form
emerges with the Big Bang and
subsequently and then entering beyond
even that and at each level of entry
entering into clearer and clearer and
clearer states of being states of
awareness now yeah that and so it's hard
for me to imagine that the being our
dimension of being that I have been in
it for hours at a time would not also be
self-aware in its unfolding now it's
also been the case that I've had the
experience that this creative
intelligence are an aspect of creative
intelligence met me in my sessions took
me on a cosmic tour you know in that
chapter initiation into the universe and
it seemed to want to show me its work it
seemed especially pleased to have
evolved consciousness to the point where
some of that consciousness could come
back and be shown what has actually been
being worked on for billions and
billions of years so it seems to delight
in being known but I wouldn't say
necessarily that it didn't know itself
before I knew it
you know what I mean
yeah and did you get a sense of
distilled have a sense of the despite
having spent so much time that in a way
you're still only doing it it's
impossible it's so the the vastness take
straw or the it's still scraping the
surface the enormity of the all of
everything yeah this was a major change
in my thinking it took place in the
fiftieth session so so my background is
I did four years of work I stopped for
six years and then I did ten years of
work so fourteen years of the active
work over 20 years yeah when I was
entering into the last five years of
work or those years of what I call the
diamond luminosity work and this was
twenty-six sessions out of twenty six
sessions that's about a third of all the
sessions in the book four of those
sessions took me into this Diamond
luminosity an unbelievably beautiful
ecstatic empty consciousness that was
just clear just clear beyond imagination
just so clear so hyper clear that once
you touch it nothing else matters except
returning to it nothing else I had
entered in earlier stages mattered in
the least compared to connecting with
this and this is what the Buddhists call
I think the closest thing I could find
is what they call dharmakaya you know
they have three dimensions or three
modalities of existence dharmakaya
sambhogakaya and nirmanakaya dharmakaya
being the deepest in dharmakaya the
absolute the light of the clear light of
absolute reality just kind of the light
out of which existence emerges I'm sorry
I got so involved in the description I
lost track with the the original
question focus where I think I know
where you're going because we were
talking about the vastness unscripted
the surface and you cry yeah yeah
yeah so I was fifty sessions in I was in
the second of the four Diamond
luminosity sessions I was as deep into
ecstatic Diamond consciousness as I had
ever gone and would ever go was the
deepest penetration in that way and
toward the end of the session I had this
experience where my visual field
flipped 90 degrees a huge space opened
up and beyond where I was there was
another reality world's upon worlds
beyond me and there was a light there
and a beam of this light hit me and it
shattered me and I called the light the
absolute light just to give it a
differentiating name from the diamond
luminosity light but what it showed me
was that there were worlds and worlds
beyond where I was as far beyond where I
was as the diamond luminosity was beyond
time and space so that told me that an
idea that I had taken into this work
that the purpose of this work was to get
to an endpoint an end stage a
destination to go home something like
this that that was just not an accurate
assumption you do repeatedly have a
sense of going home you do enter into
deep deep experiences of homecoming and
for me the diamond luminosity was my
actual practical destination I did not
go deeper than that totally satisfied me
in all respects I continued to do the
session work but for for the next 23
sessions it wasn't going deeper into the
diamond luminosity but it was
internalized and I'm a new luminosity
soaking deeper and deeper into my
physical and psychological being but
it's an it's an infinite ocean and I
don't I gave up completely the idea of
ever getting to the end of it
you